README.md, before:

# Messaging with node.js and RabbitMQ

This library implements messaging patterns in
[node.js](http://nodejs.org/)), using
[RabbitMQ](http://www.rabbitmq.com/).

You can use it as a gateway between socket servers in node.js (e.g.,
Socket.IO or net.Server) and RabbitMQ, or as an intermediary for
sockets.

As an example of the first, you might use it to distribute events from
a backend system, through RabbitMQ, to browser clients.

As an example of the second, you might use it to allow browser clients
to communicate among themselves.

There are three messaging patterns supported, following
[ZeroMQ](http://zeromq.org/) and the [RabbitMQ/ZeroMQ
bridge](http://github.com/rabbitmq/rmq-0mq/):

 - publish/subscribe: pub sockets publish to a rendezvous point; all
   sub sockets connected to the rendezvous point receive the messages.

 - request/reply: req sockets send requests to a rendezvous point,
   which are distributed among the rep sockets connected to the
   rendezvous point.  The replies back through the rep sockets are
   routed back to the originating req sockets.

 - push/pull: push sockets send messages to a rendezvous point; the
   messages are distributed among the pull sockets connected to the
   rendezvous point.

(<a href="#running">Skip to "Getting it running"</a>)

## MessageStream and MessageServer

These classes are used to decorate byte streams (e.g., `net.Stream`) and
servers (e.g., `net.Server`) respectively. `MessageStream` simply
partitions a byte stream into length-prefixed
messages. `MessageServer` wraps a server to provide `MessageStreams`
instead of streams for connections.

## Sockets

The module `sockets.js` wraps a message server to speak the messaging
patterns using RabbitMQ.  The file `socketserver.js` shows how to do
this with a regular net.Server by wrapping it first in a
`MessageServer`, then using `sockets.listen()`;

The sockets need a tiny bit of protocol on connection; the first
message sent must be the intended socket type -- one of 'pub', 'sub',
'push', 'pull', 'req', 'rep' -- plus a space, plus the name of a
"rendezvous point" (which will correspond to an AMQP exchange or
queue).  For example, `"pub amq.topic"`.  The rendezvous point will be
created for you if necessary.

The rendezvous is optional for pub and sub sockets, which will use the
`amq.fanout` exchange by default (but it is better to provide one,
unless you want all messages from all pub sockets going to all
subscribed sockets).

You can interact with the socketserver via `MessageStream`s. Run the
socketserver:

    $ node socketserver.js

then from another shell start node and create a couple of sockets:

    $ node
    > var msg = require('./messages'), net = require('net');
    > s1 = new msg.MessageStream(net.createConnection(9000));
    > s1.send('pub');
    > s2 = new msg.MessageStream(net.createConnection(9000));
    > s2.send('sub');
    > s2.on('message', function(m) { console.log(m.toString()); });
    > s1.send('Hello world!');

## rabbit.js and Socket.IO

`MessageStream` is designed to look just like Socket.IO's `Client`
class, and `sockets.listen()` will happily wrap a Socket.IO server. If
you clone Socket.IO-node in the working directory, run `node
socketio.js`, then point your browser at `http://localhost:8080/`
you'll get a familiar demo, this time running through RabbitMQ.

You can also mix this with the socket server above, since they are
both sending messages through RabbitMQ; or, with an AMQP client (note
-- the pub/sub sockets use the exchange amq.fanout by default).

<a name="running"></a>
## Getting it running

For the minute you need my fork of node-amqp:

    rabbit.js$ git clone http://github.com/squaremo/node-amqp.git

If you want to run the Socket.IO demo, grab that too:

    rabbit.js$ git clone http://github.com/LearnBoost/Socket.IO-node.git --recursive

You also need RabbitMQ, of course. Follow the [installation
instructions](http://www.rabbitmq.com/install.html), or if you
use homebrew just do

    $ brew install rabbitmq
    ...
    $ rabbitmq-server

Commit message:

Update readme re the 'allowed list'

README.md, after:

# Messaging with node.js and RabbitMQ

This library implements messaging patterns in
[node.js](http://nodejs.org/)), using
[RabbitMQ](http://www.rabbitmq.com/).

You can use it as a gateway between socket servers in node.js (e.g.,
Socket.IO or net.Server) and RabbitMQ, or as an intermediary for
sockets.

As an example of the first, you might use it to distribute events from
a backend system, through RabbitMQ, to browser clients.

As an example of the second, you might use it to allow browser clients
to communicate among themselves.

There are three messaging patterns supported, following
[ZeroMQ](http://zeromq.org/) and the [RabbitMQ/ZeroMQ
bridge](http://github.com/rabbitmq/rmq-0mq/):

 - publish/subscribe: pub sockets publish to a rendezvous point; all
   sub sockets connected to the rendezvous point receive the messages.

 - request/reply: req sockets send requests to a rendezvous point,
   which are distributed among the rep sockets connected to the
   rendezvous point.  The replies back through the rep sockets are
   routed back to the originating req sockets.

 - push/pull: push sockets send messages to a rendezvous point; the
   messages are distributed among the pull sockets connected to the
   rendezvous point.

(<a href="#running">Skip to "Getting it running"</a>)

## MessageStream and MessageServer

These classes are used to decorate byte streams (e.g., `net.Stream`) and
servers (e.g., `net.Server`) respectively. `MessageStream` simply
partitions a byte stream into length-prefixed
messages. `MessageServer` wraps a server to provide `MessageStreams`
instead of streams for connections.

## Sockets

The module `sockets.js` wraps a message server to speak the messaging
patterns using RabbitMQ.  The file `socketserver.js` shows how to do
this with a regular net.Server by wrapping it first in a
`MessageServer`, then using `sockets.listen()`;

The sockets need a tiny bit of protocol on connection; the first
message sent must be the intended socket type -- one of 'pub', 'sub',
'push', 'pull', 'req', 'rep' -- plus a space, plus the name of a
"rendezvous point" (which will correspond to an AMQP exchange or
queue).  For example, `"pub amq.topic"`.  The rendezvous point will be
created for you if necessary.

The rendezvous is optional for pub and sub sockets, which will use the
`amq.fanout` exchange by default (but it is better to provide one,
unless you want all messages from all pub sockets going to all
subscribed sockets).

You can supply another argument to sockets.listen, which will be used
for access control. It is simply a map of rendezvous names to allowed
socket types; e.g.,

    {'chat': ['pub', 'sub'],
     'requests': ['req', 'rep']}

You can interact with the socketserver via `MessageStream`s. Run the
socketserver:

    $ node socketserver.js

then from another shell start node and create a couple of sockets:

    $ node
    > var msg = require('./messages'), net = require('net');
    > s1 = new msg.MessageStream(net.createConnection(9000));
    > s1.send('pub');
    > s2 = new msg.MessageStream(net.createConnection(9000));
    > s2.send('sub');
    > s2.on('message', function(m) { console.log(m.toString()); });
    > s1.send('Hello world!');

## rabbit.js and Socket.IO

`MessageStream` is designed to look just like Socket.IO's `Client`
class, and `sockets.listen()` will happily wrap a Socket.IO server. If
you clone Socket.IO-node in the working directory, run `node
socketio.js`, then point your browser at `http://localhost:8080/`
you'll get a familiar demo, this time running through RabbitMQ.

You can also mix this with the socket server above, since they are
both sending messages through RabbitMQ; or, with an AMQP client (note
-- the pub/sub sockets use the exchange amq.fanout by default).

<a name="running"></a>
## Getting it running

For the minute you need my fork of node-amqp:

    rabbit.js$ git clone http://github.com/squaremo/node-amqp.git

If you want to run the Socket.IO demo, grab that too:

    rabbit.js$ git clone http://github.com/LearnBoost/Socket.IO-node.git --recursive

You also need RabbitMQ, of course. Follow the [installation
instructions](http://www.rabbitmq.com/install.html), or if you
use homebrew just do

    $ brew install rabbitmq
    ...
    $ rabbitmq-server
